---
layout: post
title:  "What we have to learn from Chinese Company Culture"
date:   2018-06-28 15:25:00 +0200
categories: China Digital Era
---

For a long time China has been hermetic to western culture which allowed them to develop company cultures and mindsets from scratch specific to their population. Many behaviors that we would find incongruous are standards in their part of the world. Chinese company culture could be described as a mixture of 'test and learn' with a focus on productivity.  

We may think that a population with such a big work force and a big job market might be difficult to navigate but, au contraire, it allows for high mobility between jobs. Companies' workforces are quite volatile. People jump from job to job, not afraid of a challenge, because that is how they can progress career-wise. People typically spend a year to a year and a half at a company before jumping aboard another company, typically accompanied by a significant salary raise, until they reach 'their peak' (as middle-aged adults) where they will usually stay within the company. Because of this, workers may seem individualist but they will have to be productive, if people stay less than two years at a job, then they have only so much time to make an impact and prove their worth. If they are unable to prove their worth they will not be able to progress and there are many more people waiting at the door for an opportunity. China is not afraid to fail, China is afraid of not trying. In a chinese mindset, not succeeding is a choice, only when you stop trying then you can consider it a fail.

Chinese companies may not be the most optimized, they may not have the best solution to problem and they may not provide the best services, but they will push out all of their ideas relentlessly until one of them works. The chinese market is a huge potential, 1.3 billion potential customers. The US, as a comparison, is only 300 million potential customers. In their eyes, it does not matter if a product fails, scrap it and start over.

In the west, if a product fails, it is seen as extremely negative and turns into a very dramatic situation, managers will get kicked out by the board, heads will roll. In such an environment, it is only expected from workers to turn to 'survival instincts': do not actively do anything that could potentially fail, but everything that could potentially succeed also falls under that category. Projects end up being very limited in scope, to be sure that it does not fail; or the delay between an idea coming up and its implementation gets prolonged more and more, multiplying case studies, market researches, etc.

The truth is, all the studies we can do on the market, customer insights we can obtain, benchmarkings we can do, etc. will only take us so far. The 'black swan' effect postulates that all our ways of analysis are flawed. Before humans ever saw a black swan, they always assumed that swans were white, after witnessing a black swan they had to redefine entirely what a swan was. You can never really predict where a success is going to come from because every product is different and has to reach the market. It is a fundamentally flawed idea to look into the past to design the future. Fortunately for chinese companies, they have understood that and will  
