---
layout: post
title:  "On the importance of spending time alone"
date:   2021-08-25 16:07:00 +0200
categories: life  
---

As an only child, I am quite terrified at the idea of being alone. I have grown up surrounded by the reminder that outside of my parents, half of my grandparents, no one in this world will love me and support me unconditionally. And that, as nature wants it, one day all of these people will disappear and the only person who will be there for me is myself. We never know when this day might come, there have been already quite a few close calls in my short life already.

There is this stereotype that the only child is selfish, insufferable, maybe spoiled; but I think in reality we make the best hosts because once people leave the silence truly is deafening.

As time passes, there are less and less occasions where I am alone, perhaps due to the accumulation of friends, the cementing of long-lasting friendships or my personal growth in accepting to be alone. This makes the time that I do spend alone shine even brighter, even though in the moment it feels more like a foggy walk through the forest before inevitably emerging anew from the other side.

Moving out of my parents' house at the young age of 17 to go to a city I had never been to before, to attend a university I absolutely never even contemplated going to and living in a room that I never even thought would be considered livable, gave me ample time alone to reflect on who I was when no one is around.

I had never been particularly disciplined, but I had always accomplished everything I set out to do, no matter the amount or circumstances. Was it because my parents were pushing me and holding me accountable or was it because I truly had it in me ? I tried my best my first year of university to be self-reliant, discovering all the chores I now had to do to be independent, as well as the complicated task of managing my time now that I had all this free time. Nothing I was doing was for the purpose of talking about it to other people, none of my close friends were around me. For the first time, everything I was doing was for me to figure out if I liked it or not. Was I addicted to the feeling of achievement or have I really been enjoying what I have been learning, doing, practicing for all of my life ? It's only alone that I was able to sort through what I enjoy and what is truly part of my ecosystem.

Over time as I adjusted to my new life, more people started becoming part of my daily balance and I grew accustomed to being surrounded more than ever before. This made the summer after my 1st year of university all the more brutal. Indeed, I interned in Beijing for a company that I really liked and admired from afar for years. I lived in a junior suite of a 4 star hotel, Novotel Beijing Peace Hotel, for 4 weeks - alone. I woke up every weekday morning at 7am, to eat breakfast at the executive lounge to then commute to work 45mins away in the asphyxiating Beijing heat. I came back around 7pm every day, ate dinner alone at the lounge once again, stop by the fitness room for a quick workout, alone. At work, my social situation wasn't considerably better. Everyone thought I couldn't speak Chinese, so no one spoke to me until the last week of my internship. I was used to not necessarily being around my friends since everyone usually travels in the summers, but this time because of where I was, all western social medias and messaging platforms were blocked by the Chinese government, so I couldn't rely on modern technology to help me cure the loneliness that was slowly swallowing me.

In the beginning, I truly enjoyed this time alone, no one to tell me what to do, just a simple routine I could design for myself, I could work on whatever I wanted to in the free time I had, absolutely no comments from anyone. Over time, everything that I was doing started to feel pointless, devoid of meaning. What was the point of living through all these experiences with no one to share it with ? The small victories of my days would just be drowned in the sea of collective human experiences. An interesting thing started to happen, as I stopped feeling emotionally involved in my day-to-day life, I started living inside my head. The innumerable frivolous novels I consumed as well as the hours spent looking for new music came together to create this new world in which I felt a part of. As I would be sat on the subway on my way to work, I would be a fierce Nordic warrior straight out of the video game I was playing at the time, a rockstar touring with my favorite bands, a teenager in love in a small generic suburb. In a way, this new reality I created in my head was enough for that summer, I did not need to reach out, I do not remember ever feeling bored or like I was missing out on anything. That summer changed me. I let myself dream and think of things I had never dared before, because if no one was around then no judgment would come my way either.

When I returned to university the 2nd year, I felt much more comfortable with myself. I met the person who would turn out to be my first love in part due to realizations of myself that had occurred over the summer. I went to more live concerts than I had ever been to in a year, I lived the music that I liked more passionately than before. This is the confidence that came from being alone for 4 weeks. As I have been told all my life, no one will be there for me forever, except myself, so I may as well start getting comfortable with it.
